<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="viz.modifiers.centrosymmetry"
         xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Centrosymmetry parameter</title>

  <para>
  This modifier calculates the centro-symmetry parameter of each particle [<link
  xlink:href="http://link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevB.58.11085">Kelchner, Plimpton, Hamilton, Phys Rev B, 58, 11085 (1998)</link>].
  In solid-state systems the centro-symmetry parameter is a useful measure of the local 
  lattice disorder around an atom and can be used to characterize whether the atom is 
  part of a perfect lattice, a local defect (e.g. a dislocation or stacking fault), or at a surface.
  </para>
  
  <para>
    The centro-symmetry parameter is calculated by OVITO using 
    the <link xlink:href="http://lammps.sandia.gov/doc/compute_centro_atom.html">algorithm implemented in LAMMPS</link>.
  </para>
  
  <para>
    The modifier expects a parameter that specifies the number of neighbors to take into account.
    It should correspond to the number of nearest neighbors in the underlying lattice of atoms. 
    For fcc and bcc lattices, it should be set to 12 and 8 respectively. 
    More generally, the parameter can be set to a positive, even integer.
  </para>
  
  <para>
    For an atom on a lattice site, surrounded by atoms on a perfect lattice, 
    the centro-symmetry parameter will be 0. It will be near 0 for small thermal perturbations 
    of a perfect lattice. If a point defect exists, the symmetry is broken, and the parameter 
    will be a larger positive value. An atom at a surface will have a large positive parameter.
  </para>
  
  <para>
    The modifier requires access to the complete set of particles. It should therefore be placed at the 
    beginning of the processing pipeline, preceding any modifiers that delete particles.
  </para>
  
</section>
