<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="atomviz.importing" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Importing atomic datasets</title>

  <para>Atomistic simulation data is stored in different file formats
  depending on the simulation code you use. OVITO can import a <link
  linkend="atomviz.import">variety of formats</link>, written by several
  simulation packages: <itemizedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="atomviz.import.lammps_dump">LAMMPS dump
        files</link> (text and binary, compressed and uncompressed)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="atomviz.import.lammps_data">LAMMPS data
        files</link> (compressed and uncompressed)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="atomviz.import.xyz">XYZ files</link> (a generic
        data column format)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="atomviz.import.poscar">POSCAR files</link>
        (written by the <emphasis>ab initio</emphasis> simulation code
        VASP)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="atomviz.import.imd">IMD files</link> (written by
        the <emphasis>IMD</emphasis> molecular dynamics code)</para>
      </listitem>
      
      <listitem>
        <para>CFG files (used by the <emphasis>AtomEye</emphasis> software)</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>PARCAS binary files (<emphasis>Parcas</emphasis> is an MD code
        developed in K. Nordlund's group)</para>
      </listitem>
      
    </itemizedlist></para>

  <para>To import an atomistic dataset from a file into OVITO, choose
  <menuchoice>
      <guimenu>File</guimenu>

      <guimenuitem>Import Data</guimenuitem>
    </menuchoice> from the main menu, the toolbar, or press the key shortcut
  <shortcut>
      <keycombo>
        <keycap>Ctrl</keycap>

        <keycap>i</keycap>
      </keycombo>
    </shortcut>. This will open a file selector dialog that lets you choose
  the file to import. By default, OVITO tries to detect the format of the file
  automatically by inspecting its header. If this fails, you can explicitly
  specify the correct format by selecting the corresponding entry in the
  drop-down box at the bottom of the file selection dialog. <note>
      <para>Importing a dataset file will completely replace the current
      scene. That means, you loose your current modifier sequence, camera
      settings etc. If you want to retain these settings, and simply replace
      the input data while keeping everything else then you have to change the
      input file in the properties panel of the <link
      linkend="atomviz.objects.import_atoms_object">Data source</link>.</para>
    </note></para>

  <para>After selecting the file to import, a second dialog box might show up
  (depending on the file format). Some formats such as the <link
  linkend="atomviz.import.lammps_dump">LAMMPS dump</link> format or the <link
  linkend="atomviz.import.xyz">XYZ</link> format can store an arbitrary set of
  data columns. Thus, when importing such a file, you have to specify the
  mapping from the data columns in the input file to OVITO's internal <link
  linkend="atomviz.overview.data_model">data channels</link>.</para>

  <para>Most file parsers implemented in OVITO support sequences of input
  files. That is, you can read a sequence of files such as
  <filename>file_000.xyz</filename>, <filename>file_001.xyz</filename>,
  <filename>file_002.xyz</filename>, ... stored in one directory and play it
  back as an animation.</para>
</section>
