<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="usage.import" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Importing data</title>

  <para>To open a simulation file from your local hard disk, choose 
    <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open Local File</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from the menu.
    OVITO will detect the format of the file automatically. See the <link linkend="usage.import.formats">table below</link> for a list of supported formats. 
    The program can read compressed files that have a <filename>.gz</filename> suffix (only formats that are text-based).
  </para>

  <simplesect xml:id="usage.import.sequence">
    <title>Simulation time sequences</title>
    <para>    
       OVITO can load a sequence of snapshots of a simulation. The following scenarios are supported:
       <variablelist>
         <varlistentry><term>Multiple files containing one frame each:</term><listitem>
           <para>
		       This is the default scenario, and the program tries to automatically recognize sequences of files after you loaded a first file
		       by looking for others in the same directory with a similar name. OVITO replaces the last number in the filename (if there is any)
		       with the wildcard character <literal>*</literal> to generate a search pattern and find other files in the same directory belonging to 
		       the animation sequence. For instance, if you initially opened the file <filename>anim1c_5000.dump</filename>, OVITO generates the search pattern
		       <filename>anim1c_*.dump</filename> to find all matching frames such as <filename>anim1c_0.dump</filename>,
		       <filename>anim1c_1000.dump</filename>, <filename>anim1c_2000.dump</filename>, etc. It is possible to
		       manually adjust the search pattern in the <emphasis>Frame sequence</emphasis> panel if the one generated by OVITO does not fit. 
           </para>
         </listitem></varlistentry>
         <varlistentry><term>A single file containing multiple frames:</term>><listitem>
           <para>
		       The LAMMPS dump and the XYZ formats can store multiple simulation frames in a single file.
		       By default, OVITO loads only the first frame from a file to save time. You have to explicitly tell OVITO to look 
		       for additional frames by checking the <emphasis>File contains multiple timesteps</emphasis> option
		       in the import settings panel. OVITO will then scan the file for the contained animation frames and display them in the time line
		       at the bottom of the main window.
           </para>
         </listitem></varlistentry>         
         <varlistentry><term>Multiple files containing multiple frames each:</term><listitem>
           <para>
		       To load multiple files, each containing multiple simulation frames, take the following steps: First open the first file from the sequence. 
		       Then activate the <emphasis>File contains multiple timesteps</emphasis> option. Finally, edit the wildcard pattern in the <emphasis>Frame sequence</emphasis>
		       panel to include the '<literal>*</literal>' wildcard character to let OVITO find all matching files in the directory. 
           </para>
         </listitem></varlistentry>         
       </variablelist>
    </para>
  </simplesect>
  
  <simplesect xml:id="usage.import.remote">
    <title>Importing files from remote computers</title>
    <para>
       OVITO has a built-in SSH client to directly access files on remote machines. This is useful when working with simulation data stored on 
       parallel computing clusters without having to copy them over to the local computer first.
       To open a simulation file from a remote machine, choose  
       <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Open Remote File</guimenuitem></menuchoice> from the menu.  
    </para>
    <para>
       In the current version, OVITO does not allow browsing directories on remote machines. That means you have to specify
       the full path of a remote file directly. The format of remote paths follows the URL scheme
       <screen><command>    sftp://user@hostname/path/filename</command></screen>
       Where <command>sftp://</command> is the file access protocol (Secure File Transfer Protocol), 
       <command>user</command> the login for the remote machine,
       <command>hostname</command> the name of the remote machine,
       and <command>/path/filename</command> the path to the file to import. It is possible to 
       specify a non-standard port number by appending <command>:portnumber</command> to the hostname.
    </para>
    <para>
       When OVITO connects to the remote machine, it will ask for the login password. Once established, 
       the SSH connection is kept alive until OVITO is quit. OVITO makes a temporary copy of remote files on the local computer before
       loading them to speed up subsequent accesses to simulation frames. The local copies are kept until you quit OVITO or press the <emphasis>Reload</emphasis> button
       in the import file panel.
    </para>
  </simplesect>
   
  <simplesect xml:id="usage.import.tips">
    <title>Use the command line</title>
    <para>
      When starting OVITO from a terminal, you can directly specify a file to be loaded. This works with both local and remote
      files:
       <screen>
    <command>ovito /path/filename</command>
    <command>ovito sftp://hostname/path/filename</command>
       </screen>
    </para>
  </simplesect> 
  
  <simplesect xml:id="usage.import.formats">
  <title>Supported file formats</title>
  <para>
  	OVITO can read particle data and molecular dynamics output in the following formats:  
    <informaltable>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>File format</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>

          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>LAMMPS dump</entry>
              <entry><para>File format used by the <link xlink:href="http://lammps.sandia.gov">LAMMPS molecular dynamics code</link>. OVITO supports both text-based and binary dump files.</para></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>LAMMPS data</entry>
              <entry><para>File format used by the <link xlink:href="http://lammps.sandia.gov">LAMMPS molecular dynamics code</link>. Only the <literal>atomic</literal> style is supported.</para>
              </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>XYZ</entry>
              <entry><para>A simple column-based text format, which is documented <link xlink:href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XYZ_file_format">here</link>.</para>
			    <para>The basic XYZ format does not store simulation cell dimensions. OVITO takes the axis-aligned bounding box of particles as the simulation box in this case.
			    OVITO also supports an <link xlink:href="http://jrkermode.co.uk/quippy/io.html#extendedxyz">extended XYZ format</link>, which includes header information on the simulation cell,
			    boundary conditions, and the data fields stored in the file.</para>
                </entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>POSCAR</entry>
              <entry><para>File format used by the <emphasis>ab initio</emphasis> simulation package <link xlink:href="http://www.vasp.at/">VASP</link>.</para></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>IMD</entry>
              <entry><para>File format used by the molecular dynamics code <link xlink:href="http://imd.itap.physik.uni-stuttgart.de/">IMD</link>.</para></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>CFG</entry>
              <entry><para>File format used by the <link xlink:href="http://li.mit.edu/Archive/Graphics/A/"><emphasis>AtomEye</emphasis> software</link>.</para></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>PARCAS</entry>
              <entry><para>A binary file format written by the MD code <emphasis>Parcas</emphasis> developed in K. Nordlund's group at University of Helsinki.</para></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>NetCDF</entry>
              <entry><para>A binary format for molecular dynamics data based on the standard NetCDF container. There exists an <link xlink:href="https://github.com/pastewka/lammps-netcdf">extension module for LAMMPS</link> that adds NetCDF output.</para></entry>
            </row>
            <row>
              <entry>PDB</entry>
              <entry><para>OVITO can read atomic coordinates from Protein Data Bank (PDB) files.</para></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </informaltable>  
  </para>
  <para>
  	Triangle meshes can be read from files in the following format:  
    <informaltable>
        <tgroup cols="2">
          <thead>
            <row>
              <entry>File format</entry>
              <entry>Description</entry>
            </row>
          </thead>

          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry>VTK</entry>
              <entry><para>Format used by the <emphasis>Visualization Toolkit</emphasis> (VTK). This text-based format is documented <link xlink:href="http://www.vtk.org/VTK/img/file-formats.pdf">here</link>. OVITO supports only triangular cells.</para></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </informaltable>  
  </para>
  </simplesect>
  
</section>
