<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="usage.miscellaneous" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Miscellaneous</title>

  <sect3 xml:id="usage.saving_loading_scene">
  <title>Saving program state</title>
    <para>
      The complete program state, including the viewports, modifiers and display settings, can be saved to a <emphasis>scene file</emphasis>
      via <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Save State</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. This allows to continue your work at a later time 
      and to preserve a visualization setup for later use. You can load an old visualization setup stored in a scene file via 
      <menuchoice><guimenu>File</guimenu><guimenuitem>Load State</guimenuitem></menuchoice>. Note that you have the possibility to replace the input simulation file
      while preserving the modification pipeline and parameters. Thus, you can use a scene file as a template to visualize several simulations
      with the same setup.
    </para>
    <para>
      OVITO uses a binary format for the scene files to store all objects, their parameters, and their dependencies. 
      By default, OVITO does not store the original particle data in the scene file to keep its compact. Only a reference
      to the original simulation file is stored, and the particle data is restored from the external source when the scene file is loaded.
    </para>
  </sect3>

  <sect3 xml:id="usage.particle_inspection_utility">
    <title>Particle inspection utility</title>
    <para>
      OVITO's command panel contains a third tab, the "Utilities" tab. It hosts a utility, which allows to 
      inspect the properties of individual particles. Simply activate this utility and click on a particle in the
      viewports to show the values of its properties.
    </para>
  </sect3>
  
</section>
