<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="usage.viewports" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Viewports</title>

  <para>
    OVITO's main window contains four viewports, which are laid out in a 2 by 2
    grid. Each viewport shows the same three-dimensional scene from a different view.
    The caption in the upper left corner and the axis tripod in the lower left corner of every viewport 
    indicate the current viewing direction, i.e. the orientation of the virtual camera in space.
  </para> 

  <simplesect xml:id="usage.viewports.navigation">
  <title>Navigation</title>     
  <para>
    Use the mouse to navigate within a viewport and to move the camera around:
    <itemizedlist>
    <listitem><para>
      Left-click and dragging the mouse rotates the camera around the current orbit center, which, by default, is located at the center of the current object.
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>
      Right-click and dragging moves the camera parallel to the current projection plane. You can also use the middle mouse button for this.
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>
      Use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out.
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>
      Double-click on a particle or other object to set a new orbit center. From now on the camera will rotate around that location in space, which is marked by a symbol.
    </para></listitem>
    <listitem><para>
      Double-click in an empty region of a viewport to reset the orbit center to the center of the current object (e.g. the simulation box).
    </para></listitem>
    </itemizedlist>

     By default, the z-axis is considered the "up" direction, and OVITO ensures that it is always pointing upward when you rotate the camera. 
     Depending on your simulation setup, this might not be the best choice. In such a case you can also make the x-axis or the y-axis the "up" directions in the 
     application settings dialog.
  </para>
  </simplesect>
  
  <simplesect xml:id="usage.viewports.toolbar">
  <title>Viewport toolbar</title>     
   <para>
     The viewport toolbar is located below the viewports, in the lower right corner. It contains buttons that activate various viewport navigation modes. 
     With the <emphasis>Maximize Active Viewport</emphasis> button 
     the active viewport can be enlarged to fill the entire main window. Clicking the button again restores the original 2x2 layout.
     The active viewport is marked by a yellow border.
   </para>
   <para>
     The <emphasis>Zoom Scene Extents</emphasis> button adjusts the zoom level of the active viewport
     such that the entire scene becomes fully visible.
   </para>
  </simplesect>

  <simplesect xml:id="usage.viewports.menu">
  <title>Viewport menu</title>
   <para>
     Clicking on the caption text in a viewport's upper left corner opens the viewport menu. Here you can switch between the standard view types
     such as <emphasis>Top</emphasis>, <emphasis>Left</emphasis>, <emphasis>Front</emphasis> etc. 
   </para>
   <para>
     Selecting <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Adjust Camera</guimenuitem></menuchoice> opens a dialog box that lets you adjust the camera's position and orientation numerically.
   </para>
   <para>
     The <menuchoice><guimenuitem>Show Render Frame</guimenuitem></menuchoice> option activates a visual clue to indicate the area of the viewport that will be visible 
     in the final output picture. The aspect ratio of the rendered image can be adjusted in the <link linkend="core.render_settings">Render Settings</link> panel. 
   </para>
  </simplesect>     

</section>
