<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<chapter version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="credits" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Credits and License</title>

  <para>The program has been written by Alexander Stukowski.</para>

  <para>The program is licensed under the terms of the <link
  linkend="appendix.GPL">GNU General Public License</link>.</para>

  <para>This manual has been written by Alexander Stukowski and Tobias
  Brink.</para>

  <para>This manual is licensed under the terms of the <link
  linkend="appendix.GFDL">GNU Free Documentation License</link>.</para>

  <para>The Tachyon raytracer engine is subject to the following terms:</para>

  <para>Copyright (c) 1994-2011 John E. Stone. All rights reserved.</para>

  <para>Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
  modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
  <orderedlist>
      <listitem>
        <para>Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
        notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
        copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer
        in the documentation and/or other materials provided with the
        distribution.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>The name of the author may not be used to endorse or promote
        products derived from this software without specific prior written
        permission.</para>
      </listitem>
    </orderedlist></para>

  <para>THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR ``AS IS'' AND ANY EXPRESS OR
  IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
  MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO
  EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
  SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO,
  PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS;
  OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY,
  WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
  OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF
  ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.</para>
</chapter>
