<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<chapter version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="introduction" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Introduction</title>

  <para>OVITO is a scientific data visualization and analysis software for
  large-scale atomistic simulation models in materials science and engineering and related disciplines.
  OVITO is made freely available for
  Windows, Linux, and Mac OS X under an open-source license. It is being developed by <link xlink:href="http://scholar.google.com/citations?user=f8Tw3eEAAAAJ">Dr. Alexander
  Stukowski</link> at the <link xlink:href="http://www.mawi.tu-darmstadt.de/mm/mm_mm_sw/index.en.jsp">
  Materials Science Department</link> of Darmstadt University of Technology, Germany.
  </para>
  
  <para>
  The first publicly available version of OVITO was released in December 2009, after one and a half years of development.
  Today OVITO's user base comprises several thousand researchers from the computational materials science field.
  To introduce the software package to the community, a <link xlink:href="http://stacks.iop.org/0965-0393/18/015012">journal article about OVITO</link> was published in 2010.
  In 2013, OVITO's source code was rewritten from the ground up, and version 2.0 of the software was released.
  </para>
  
  <simplesect>
  <title>Program features</title>

  <para>OVITO is a software for visualizing and analyzing data from atomistic simulations of particles, in particular molecular dynamics (MD) simulations of 
  solid-state materials. Its main application area are large-scale simulations using classical interaction potentials (10<superscript>4</superscript> - 10<superscript>8</superscript> particles). 
  Some noteworthy program features are: <itemizedlist>

      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="usage.import">Import</link> and <link linkend="usage.export">export</link> of various file formats used by 
        MD simulation codes including LAMMPS, XYZ, CFG, IMD, POSCAR, and PDB.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Interactive display of large numbers of particles using hardware-accelerated OpenGL rendering.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>An easy-to-use interface, flexible software design, and a <link linkend="usage.particle_properties">data model</link> that supports an arbitrary number of particle properties.</para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Visualization and calculation of <link linkend="particles.modifiers.construct_surface_mesh">polyhedral meshes</link> from atomistic datasets.</para>
      </listitem>
      
      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="usage.rendering">High-quality image and movie output for publication</link></para>
      </listitem>
      
      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="usage.scripting">A powerful Python-based scripting interface</link></para>
      </listitem>      

      <listitem>
        <para><link linkend="usage.modification_pipeline">Processing model</link>: Data modification and analysis functions are arranged in a data flow pipeline by the user; parameters can be altered at 
        any time with immediate recalculation of the results. Available <link linkend="particles.modifiers">modification functions</link> include:<itemizedlist>
        
            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.slice">Slicing</link></para>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.expression_select">Selection of particles based on user-defined criteria (Boolean expressions)</link></para>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.color_coding">Color coding</link></para>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.affine_transformation">Transformation of particle coordinates</link></para>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.compute_property">Calculation of derived particle properties using math formulas</link></para>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.show_periodic_images">Display of periodic images</link> &amp; <link linkend="particles.modifiers.wrap_at_periodic_boundaries">wrapping of particles at periodic boundaries</link></para>
            </listitem>
            
            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.create_bonds">Creation of atomic bonds</link></para>
            </listitem>

            <listitem>
              <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.manual_selection">Manual selection of particles</link> and display of particle properties</para>
            </listitem>
            
          </itemizedlist> 
        </para>
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>Useful analysis functions:</para>

        <itemizedlist>
          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.common_neighbor_analysis">Common neighbor analysis (CNA)</link></para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.bond_angle_analysis">Bond-angle analysis</link></para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.centrosymmetry">Centro-symmetry parameter</link></para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.coordination_analysis">Coordination number analysis and radial distribution function</link></para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.displacement_vectors">Displacement vector calculation</link></para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.atomic_strain">Calculation of atomic strain tensors</link></para>
          </listitem>
          
          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.histogram">Histogram</link> and <link linkend="particles.modifiers.scatter_plot">scatter plot</link> functions</para>
          </listitem>

          <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.construct_surface_mesh">Reconstruction of surface geometry from point-like particles</link></para>
          </listitem>

	      <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.voronoi_analysis">Voronoi cell analysis</link></para>
          </listitem>
          
	      <listitem>
            <para><link linkend="particles.modifiers.wigner_seitz_analysis">Wigner-Seitz cell analysis for identification of point defects</link></para>
          </listitem>
          
        </itemizedlist>
         
      </listitem>

      <listitem>
        <para>A modular software design that makes it easy to extend OVITO via plugins</para>
      </listitem>
      
    </itemizedlist>
    </para>
    
  </simplesect>
    
</chapter>
