<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<section version="5.0"
         xsi:schemaLocation="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook http://docbook.org/xml/5.0/xsd/docbook.xsd"
         xml:id="atomviz.data_channels" xmlns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook"
         xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
         xmlns:xs="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema"
         xmlns:xlink="http://www.w3.org/1999/xlink"
         xmlns:xi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XInclude"
         xmlns:ns="http://docbook.org/ns/docbook">
  <title>Standard data channels</title>

  <para>OVITO has a number of standard properties that can be associated with
  atoms. The per-atom values of each property are stored in so-called <link
  linkend="atomviz.overview.data_model">data channels</link>. This section
  contains descriptions of the most important standard data channels.</para>

  <section xml:id="atomviz.data_channels.atomtype">
    <title>Atom Type</title>

    <para>Stores the type (species) of each atom. Note that the meaning of an
    atom type depends on the simulation software. Usually atom types denote
    the chemical species of atoms. The Atom Type data channel only exists if
    the imported input file contains atom type information.</para>

    <para>Internally, OVITO stores the atom type assigned to each atom as an
    integer number. It serves as an index into the (smaller) array of atom
    types, which are also stored with the <emphasis>Atom Type</emphasis> data
    channel.</para>

    <para>The parameters panel of the <emphasis>Atom Type</emphasis> data
    channel lets you control how different atom types are rendered (radius
    &amp; color). See <link linkend="atomviz.objects.atom_types">this
    section</link> for more information.</para>
  </section>

  <section xml:id="atomviz.data_channels.position">
    <title>Position</title>

    <para>This data channel stores the atomic coordinates. Hence, it is always
    present. </para>

    <para>The parameter panel of the <emphasis>Position</emphasis> data
    channel is described <link
    linkend="atomviz.objects.atoms_display">here</link>.</para>
  </section>

  <section xml:id="atomviz.data_channels.displacement">
    <title>Displacement</title>

    <para>Stores a displacement vector for each atom. It can be computed with
    the <link linkend="atomviz.modifiers.calculate_displacements">Calculate
    displacements modifier</link> or loaded from the input file.</para>

    <para>The <emphasis>Displacement</emphasis> data channel has several
    parameters that control the display of displacement vectors (arrows) in
    the viewports. This section of the manual is not complete yet.</para>
  </section>

  <section xml:id="atomviz.data_channels.cnaatomtype">
    <title>Structure Type</title>

    <para>Stores the local crystal structure as determined by the <link
    linkend="atomviz.modifiers.common_neighbor_analysis">Common Neighbor
    Analysis modifier</link> or the <link
    linkend="atomviz.modifiers.ackland_analysis">Bond Angle Analysis
    modifier</link>. The per-atom structure type is encoded as an integer
    value.</para>
  </section>

  <section xml:id="atomviz.data_channels.color">
    <title>Color</title>

    <para>Stores the color of each atom. If the <emphasis>Color</emphasis>
    channel is not present, atoms are colored according to their atom type
    (see <link linkend="atomviz.data_channels.atomtype">Atom Type</link>
    channel).</para>
  </section>
</section>
